Add improved docs (#900)
remarkjs/remark: packages/remark-cli/readme.md

[![Backers][backers-badge]][collective]
[![Chat][chat-badge]][chat]

Command line interface to inspect and change markdown files with **[remark][]**.

## Contents

*   [What is this?](#what-is-this)
*   [When should I use this?](#when-should-i-use-this)
*   [Install](#install)
*   [Use](#use)
*   [CLI](#cli)
*   [Examples](#examples)
    *   [Example: checking and formatting markdown on the CLI](#example-checking-and-formatting-markdown-on-the-cli)
*   [Compatibility](#compatibility)
*   [Security](#security)
*   [Contribute](#contribute)
*   [Sponsor](#sponsor)
*   [License](#license)

## What is this?

This package is a command line interface (CLI) that you can use in your terminal
or in npm scripts and the like to inspect and change markdown files.
This CLI is built around remark, which is a very popular ecosystem of plugins
that work with markdown as structured data: ASTs (short for abstract syntax

> trees).

Author: This same sentence is repeated in the monorepo too. Same suggestion there?

- The reason for the term first and explanation later is that I think more folks will have heard of `AST`. Similar to, say, CIA (...) or so. The full details are not required if the abbreviation is know, but can optionally enhance understanding
- The `as X using Y` to me doesn’t make a lot of sense because what I want to explain is that Y is a narrowed form of X. Similar to say, `as markup using markdown`. I want to say “specifically” or “otherwise known as”?

> trees).

Author: ping @ChristianMurphy

> that work with markdown as structured data: ASTs (short for abstract syntax
> trees).

Reviewer: > Same suggestion there?

Same there

> The reason for the term first and explanation later is that I think more folks will have heard of AST

:thinking: alright

> I want to say “specifically” or “otherwise known as”?

Sure, how about:

```suggestion
that work with markdown as structured data, specifically ASTs (abstract syntax
trees).
```

[![Backers][backers-badge]][collective]
[![Chat][chat-badge]][chat]

Command line interface to inspect and change markdown files with **[remark][]**.

## Contents

*   [What is this?](#what-is-this)
*   [When should I use this?](#when-should-i-use-this)
*   [Install](#install)
*   [Use](#use)
*   [CLI](#cli)
*   [Examples](#examples)
    *   [Example: checking and formatting markdown on the CLI](#example-checking-and-formatting-markdown-on-the-cli)
    *   [Example: config files (JSON, YAML, JS)](#example-config-files-json-yaml-js)
*   [Compatibility](#compatibility)
*   [Security](#security)
*   [Contribute](#contribute)
*   [Sponsor](#sponsor)
*   [License](#license)

## What is this?

This package is a command line interface (CLI) that you can use in your terminal

> or in npm scripts and the like to inspect and change markdown files.

Author: ASTs/plugins sometimes change things. Sometimes they inspect things. Inspect here is a broader term for “looking at” than viewing/reporting/linting/checking, looking for patterns.

> or in npm scripts and the like to inspect and change markdown files.

Reviewer: that's a lot of implied meaning to put in one word :sweat_smile:

> or in npm scripts and the like to inspect and change markdown files.

Author: Well, you did ask me to provide the meaning of one word, in relation to one interpretation, specific to the CLI? 🤷‍♂️
The words “inspect and change” occur together many times in this PR, on almost every page, to explain the two things plugins do

```

This is the same configuration in YAML, which can be placed in `.remarkrc.yml`:

```yml
settings:
  bullet: "*"
plugins:
  # Check that markdown is consistent.
  - remark-preset-lint-consistent
  # Few recommended rules.
  - remark-preset-lint-recommended
  # Generate a table of contents in `## Contents`
  - - remark-toc
    - heading: contents
```

When `remark-cli` is about to process a markdown file it’ll search the file
system upwards for configuration files starting at the folder where that file
exists.
Take the following file structure as an illustration:

```txt
folder/
├─ subfolder/
│  ├─ .remarkrc.json
│  └─ file.md
├─ .remarkrc.js
├─ package.json
└─ readme.md
```

When `folder/subfolder/file.md` is processed, the closest config file is
`folder/subfolder/.remarkrc.json`.
For `folder/readme.md`, it’s `folder/.remarkrc.js`.

The order of precedence is as follows.
Earlier wins (so in the above file structure `folder/.remarkrc.js` wins over
`folder/package.json`):

1.  `.remarkc` (JSON)
2.  `.remarkc.json` (JSON)
3.  `.remarkc.cjs` (CJS)
4.  `.remarkc.mjs` (ESM)
5.  `.remarkc.js` (CJS or ESM, depending on `type: 'module'` in `package.json`)
6.  `.remarkc.yaml` (YAML)

> 7.  `.remarkc.yml` (YAML)

Reviewer: I'm confused JSON appears earlier in the list, but JS which is later in the list wins?

Author: Good catch. The difference is that the json in the example is called `package.json`, which is not listed here
